# Vikram_Repo
My Data Science Portfolio

**Project 1: Gaming infographic**

For the purposes of this infographic we have selected the dataset available at https://www.kaggle.com/egrinstein/20-years-of-games/version/2. It consists of 18000 rows with corresponding to different titles and platforms from 1996 to 2016. For example, if a game title was released on 3 different platforms it is accommodated in 3 rows. For every title the dataset contains the release day, month and year specific to each platform the title was released on. Furthermore, a genre associated with the title along with a review score and score phrase given by the popular games reviewing website IGN has been included in the dataset. In addition to this, we can see whether a game was an editor’s choice or not. Having such a huge collection of data is extremely useful for not only generating infographics but also to perform data analysis. Well classified data is extremely suitable for creating visualizations, as we can easily extract the information from the source. This also makes it easier to identify trends and make comparisons. As this dataset contains time-series information forming a story, while emphasizing on key elements becomes straightforward, which is the fundamental aspect of an infographic.

**Project 2: Exploring a century of olympic games**
We have performed analysis on the Olympic Games held from 1896 to 2016. Through our analysis we will uncover various trends in the Olympic games and most noteworthy trends have been presented below in the form of intuitive images and graphs. The Olympic games have been in existence for over a century, which makes it interesting to discover the underlying patterns which can potentially describe the evolution of sports over time. Furthermore, such data can also point towards other social factors which may have developed or recessed since the 19th Century.

**Project 3: Movie reccommendation system**
In recent years internet connectivity has evolved significantly making it possible to maintain big cloud storages even for the average consumers. This has led to the adoption of streaming services by the consumers. These days consumers are provided with a plethora of options. This has provoked the need to implement recommendation systems. But for new users recommendation engines cannot function due to the complete lack of user-specific data. Until the user data generated it is possible to provide generic recommendation based on the users around them or based on the current trends. This paper talks about such generic queries which can help the existing recommendation systems to deal with new users. Through this project we have carried out experiments on the MovieLens dataset and discussed the results of data analysis. All of our results can be used to provide customers with initial recommendations. Our results are considerably trustworthy due to the sheer number of users who have provided ratings and tags to thousands of movies released in the past century.

Index Terms — Big Data, HDFS, Map Reduce, Pig, Spark, Hive, Recommendation Systems.
